.\" Manpage for git-ignore
.TH GIT-IGNORE 1
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
git-ignore \- Easily add standard files to .gitignore
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B git ignore
[\fB\-l\fR]
[\fB\-\-list\fR]
.IR [<templatelist>...]
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B git-ignore
Creates/appends a set of templates to the .gitignore file in the current directory.
It does this by downloading the .gitignore template using the https://gitignore.io API.
As such, all operations require a working internet connection.
.PP
Note that this won't overwrite the current .gitignore file.
If a .gitignore file already exists in the current directory, it will append to it.
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-l ", " \-\-list
If given, will list the available templates. Note this must come before any templates,
and any templates specified will be ignored.
.TP
.BR <templatelist>...
Template(s) to download and append to the local .gitignore file.
Multiple templates can be specified by separating each one with a space or comma.
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}
List all available templates:
.sp
.if n \{\
.RS 4
.\}
.nf
$ git ignore -l
.fi
.if n \{\
.RE
.\}
.sp
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}
Add a .gitignore file to a C++ project:
.sp
.if n \{\
.RS 4
.\}
.nf
$ git ignore c++
.fi
.if n \{\
.RE
.\}
.sp
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}
Add a .gitignore file to a C/C++ project on macOS (i.e. ignore system files):
.sp
.if n \{\
.RS 4
.\}
.nf
$ git ignore c c++ macos
.fi
.if n \{\
.RE
.\}
.sp
Note templates can also be given comma-separated (with or without space):
.sp
.if n \{\
.RS 4
.\}
.nf
$ git ignore c, c++, macos
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH AUTHOR
Written by David John Harrison (https://david.harrison.sh).
